README.md, before:

# Spellcheck [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/hpi-swa-teaching/SpellChecking.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/hpi-swa-teaching/SpellChecking) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/hpi-swa-teaching/SpellChecking/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/hpi-swa-teaching/SpellChecking?branch=master)

## Features
 - Spellchecking inside TextMorphs (for example the workspace)
 - User Interface for checking all mistakes in a text, comparable to other spellchecking tools
 - User Interface for organizing the words you added to your dictionary or change the language
 - Choose between multiple languages, new language-dictionaries can be added too
 - Supported for Windows, Linux and Mac
## Installation
### Linux
1. Install libhunspell by running
> sudo apt install libhunspell-1.6-0
2. Create a directory "<Your Squeak-Image-Root>/SWT2019Trunk.app/Contents/Resources/dictionaries/english" and /german, and copy files en_US.aff, en_US.dic, de_DE.aff, de_DE.dic in the two folders.
3. Start Squeak, and run the following code in a workspace:
>   (Installer repository: 'http://source.squeak.org/FFI') <br/>
        install: 'FFI-Pools'; <br/>
        install: 'FFI-Kernel'; <br/>
        install: 'FFI-Tests'; <br/>
        install: 'FFI-Examples'. <br/>
    Metacello new <br/>
    baseline: 'Spellcheck';<br/>
    repository: 'github://hpi-swa-teaching/SpellChecking:fix-libraries-linux/packages';<br/>
    load: 'tests'.

Tasks 1 and 2 can be done autonomously by *install-dependencies.sh*. Just copy it in the same directory as *squeak.sh* (root directory of HPI SWA image) and run it. Its first command-line parameter is the path to where you cloned
your Git repository to, e.g.
> install-dependencies.sh ~/SWE/SpellChecking

Make sure there is no slash at the end of the path.

### Windows
Copy *install-dependencies.cmd* to the root directory of your image (same folder as *squeak.bat*) and run it in a cmd window. Its first command-line parameter is the path to where you cloned
your Git repository to, e.g.
> install-dependencies.cmd C:\SpellChecking <br/>

Start Squeak, and run the following code in a workspace:
>   (Installer repository: 'http://source.squeak.org/FFI') <br/>
        install: 'FFI-Pools'; <br/>
        install: 'FFI-Kernel'; <br/>
        install: 'FFI-Tests'; <br/>
        install: 'FFI-Examples'. <br/>
    Metacello new <br/>
    baseline: 'Spellcheck';<br/>
    repository: 'github://hpi-swa-teaching/SpellChecking:fix-libraries-windows/packages';<br/>
    load: 'tests'.


## Usage

### Activate the feature in the preferences:
1. Go to ```tools``` -> ```preferences``` to open the preference browser
2. Look for the category 'Spellchecking'
3. Enable ```SpellChecking in TextMorphs```. you may also leave ```syntaxHighlightingAsYouType``` activated if you wish to
4. Start typing!

### Usage in a TextMorphs
- Seemingly misspelled words are highlighted and underlined in orange color
- selecting and right-clicking on a wrong word let's you correct the word or add it to the dictionary
- ##### in Worspace only:
   - save the content of the workspace (ctrl+s) and click on the blue arrow in the top right corner. Then click ```Open SpellChecker```
   - ignored words are only ignored for the duration of this session
   - words that are added to the dictionary survive a restart

### Dictionary Management
- Go to ```Apps``` -> ```Dictionary Setting``` to change the language or organize added words
- On the left side you see the words that you added to your dictionary, you may select a word there and remove it with the 'remove word'-button below
- On the right side you see an overview over your available dictionaries, choose another one and start typing to see changes

### How to add more languages?
- All available Languages are stored in the 'dictionaries'-folder in 'Ressources'
- To add a language, simply create a new subfolder and insert the .dic and .aff file; no worries - those are available for free from the web
- The name of the subfolder will be the name of the language on
- The name of the .dic and .aff files do not matter

## History
This project was initially created as part of SWT SoSe 2018.

2018: Ivan Ilic, Youri Kaminsky, Robert Schwanhold, Ole Wegen, Paul Zimmermann

Commit message:

Made squeak installation folder a parameter.

README.md, after:

# Spellcheck [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/hpi-swa-teaching/SpellChecking.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/hpi-swa-teaching/SpellChecking) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/hpi-swa-teaching/SpellChecking/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/hpi-swa-teaching/SpellChecking?branch=master)

## Features
 - Spellchecking inside TextMorphs (for example the workspace)
 - User Interface for checking all mistakes in a text, comparable to other spellchecking tools
 - User Interface for organizing the words you added to your dictionary or change the language
 - Choose between multiple languages, new language-dictionaries can be added too
 - Supported for Windows, Linux and Mac
## Installation
### Linux
1. Install libhunspell by running
> sudo apt install libhunspell-1.6-0
2. Create a directory "<Your Squeak-Image-Root>/SWT2019Trunk.app/Contents/Resources/dictionaries/english" and /german, and copy files en_US.aff, en_US.dic, de_DE.aff, de_DE.dic in the two folders.
3. Start Squeak, and run the following code in a workspace:
>   (Installer repository: 'http://source.squeak.org/FFI') <br/>
        install: 'FFI-Pools'; <br/>
        install: 'FFI-Kernel'; <br/>
        install: 'FFI-Tests'; <br/>
        install: 'FFI-Examples'. <br/>
    Metacello new <br/>
    baseline: 'Spellcheck';<br/>
    repository: 'github://hpi-swa-teaching/SpellChecking:fix-libraries-linux/packages';<br/>
    load: 'tests'.

Tasks 1 and 2 can be done autonomously by *install-dependencies.sh*. Just copy it in the same directory as *squeak.sh* (root directory of HPI SWA image) and run it. Its first command-line parameter is the path to where you cloned
your Git repository to, its second command-line argument is the path to the folder of your Squeak image containing the "Contents" subfolder, e.g.
> install-dependencies.sh ~/SWE/SpellChecking ~/SWE/SWT2019Trunk.app

Make sure there is no slash at the end of the path.

### Windows
Copy *install-dependencies.cmd* to the root directory of your image (same folder as *squeak.bat*) and run it in a cmd window. Its first command-line parameter is the path to where you cloned
your Git repository to,its second command-line argument is the path to the folder of your Squeak image containing the "Contents" subfolder, e.g.
> install-dependencies.cmd C:\SpellChecking C:\SWT2019Trunk.app <br/>

Start Squeak, and run the following code in a workspace:
>   (Installer repository: 'http://source.squeak.org/FFI') <br/>
        install: 'FFI-Pools'; <br/>
        install: 'FFI-Kernel'; <br/>
        install: 'FFI-Tests'; <br/>
        install: 'FFI-Examples'. <br/>
    Metacello new <br/>
    baseline: 'Spellcheck';<br/>
    repository: 'github://hpi-swa-teaching/SpellChecking:fix-libraries-windows/packages';<br/>
    load: 'tests'.


## Usage

### Activate the feature in the preferences:
1. Go to ```tools``` -> ```preferences``` to open the preference browser
2. Look for the category 'Spellchecking'
3. Enable ```SpellChecking in TextMorphs```. you may also leave ```syntaxHighlightingAsYouType``` activated if you wish to
4. Start typing!

### Usage in a TextMorphs
- Seemingly misspelled words are highlighted and underlined in orange color
- selecting and right-clicking on a wrong word let's you correct the word or add it to the dictionary
- ##### in Worspace only:
   - save the content of the workspace (ctrl+s) and click on the blue arrow in the top right corner. Then click ```Open SpellChecker```
   - ignored words are only ignored for the duration of this session
   - words that are added to the dictionary survive a restart

### Dictionary Management
- Go to ```Apps``` -> ```Dictionary Setting``` to change the language or organize added words
- On the left side you see the words that you added to your dictionary, you may select a word there and remove it with the 'remove word'-button below
- On the right side you see an overview over your available dictionaries, choose another one and start typing to see changes

### How to add more languages?
- All available Languages are stored in the 'dictionaries'-folder in 'Ressources'
- To add a language, simply create a new subfolder and insert the .dic and .aff file; no worries - those are available for free from the web
- The name of the subfolder will be the name of the language on
- The name of the .dic and .aff files do not matter

## History
This project was initially created as part of SWT SoSe 2018.

2018: Ivan Ilic, Youri Kaminsky, Robert Schwanhold, Ole Wegen, Paul Zimmermann
